Serena continue our discussion to the IP address thing
And impart start to talk about an issue that can arise as soon as i p fragmentation
As we do that
We need to continue talking about the IP headers for a couple other aspects
We had mentioned in the IP Hatteras or what
the total length of the header is
So
it's 16 bits in this winter coat
How many bytes are in the packet
So
the maximum pocket-sized
then I would be to to the 16 - 1 since we have 16 bits or 650 5535 bites
So
underlying links
however
might impose smaller limits and this is where fragmentation starts to come into play
So fragmentation occurs
when boarding a packet and internet router may need to split or fragment that packet into multiple pieces
If it's too large for the next top link
So fragmentation information includes 32 bits of information in the header
which includes a packet identifier flags as well as that fragment offset
So is an illustrative example
Suppose
we're sending this packet that's length of a thousand and suppose the maximum transfer unit or MTU of each of these links
Along the way this link is 1000 bytes
This link is 500 bytes
This link is 1,000 bytes
So this would be the max packet size that can be handled by that link
And this could be a function of the underlying physical media that's being used
So
as we're trim transferring from the hosts
the router one
Now at this router because the maximum transfer units
500 by its
we're going to have to split this packet
We could say split into two packets each link 500 and then they could be sent along the way
So at this point
we could potentially reassemble these
So that would be where we might put these packets back together
So that we could then continue on with the with the packet reassembled being sent from router to to host be
but it doesn't necessarily have to happen there
So it could have happened that we just send two packets through the link between our two and host
Be even though we have a larger maximum transfer unit allowed
We went ahead and just didn't do the reassemble
Maybe we could just do it at the receiver
So where does that occur
So what the correct answer is typically is it at Whitaker at the end coast and the reason being is that the fragments could travel across different paths
So why would we do the reassembly in the network if it could be further fragmented
later as well
If we already took the processing effort to split the pack it up
supposing
our networks been modified and we have two links
We could simultaneously
send this information
That's a long routes through router to and router 3, maybe they could arrive at different times
Soho speed
and then the reassembly could happen there
So we'd prefer to do it at the Final Destination
So that we would avoid extra overhead from doing the splitting
and reassembly in the network
especially because it could further be subject to fragmentation further down in the path of the network
So this is where this information is stored in the IP packet
had her what offset would be there as well
Some ID numbers are going to talk a little bit more about so what are these portions of the header
So the identifier is used to tell which fragments belong together
So basically what packets been split up and which fragments are going to correspond to which original packet
The flags are three bets can be a variety of things
Like dog
fragment instruct routers
not to fragment the packet even if it would fit
they could drop it instead and send back a two
large icmp message
This could form the basis for doing the maximum transfer unit discovery
which will talk some about later
So the other portion is the offset to the offsets 13 bets
So what part of the data gram would be covered by this fragment in a fight
your nuts and how could the receiver differentiate between the last fragment of a packet and a nun fragmented packet
So there's some special offset
So neither one of them would have this mf4 fragmented Flagstaff and if the offset of zero then it corresponds to it being a nun
fragmented packet
Otherwise
it needs to be the last fragment
So it has been coded that specially
So
let's just look at an example of fragmentation
So supposed to have a 4,000 by theater
Grandma package
sent from host
One
two
three
four
Two Hosts
three
four
five
six
So
we have the source and destination address is encoded
We have extra information
included beyond the 20 bite
Header
The total length includes the header link
Plus the additional payload lengths
study identification
That's the fragmented ID and then an offset
And then this other flags within the fragmentation aren't set
currently there's a check some guy that's been plugged in corresponding to this
Check some of the data encoded in the message
Let's suppose that traverses are linked that limits datagrams to 1500 bytes
So what would occur in this the date of Grant would need to be split into pieces
So as an example we have from by zero up two by four thousand so we could split this into three different chunks or three different datagrams
So one correspondent again
the maximum transfer it was 1500
So one could correspond to filling up that whole $1,500, or 20 bites have had her information and 1480 bytes of packet payload
The next packet
Perhaps could be split up into 12:20 total
So 1200 for the payload
20 for the header
and the last could be split up
Let's stay in to 1301 for this total length
Length of 4001 bytes
So the possible first piece then could look something like this
So we have an ID for what packet
this corresponds to the total length would get encoded
Here's the 1500 and then the fragment offset could be 0
Corresponding to it being the first part of the fragment
So the possible second piece then the as we can see the ID number stays the same or at so that ID number would stay the same
The total length is now changed
And then the fragment offset where this would appear
we are counting in bites here
So the fragment offset here would need to be 185 cuz 185 times
So it would be the 14 80 and that correspond to the length minus
the header length of the previous fragment
so that we can put things back together appropriately
So then the possible third piece of this could look like this
So the fragment offset for this now
would be the sum
Of the prior two fragments for the 1,200 plus the 1480 would be where we're getting this 2680 from
So that would be the fragment offset
So 3:35 bites would correspond to that 2680
Right
So
this is how we know that this portion of the fragment would be the last one based on that offset
So there are designed the decisions that we can make it with respect to fragmentation
So 1 ways
where would we assembly occur
We've mentioned that a little bit so far
So usually we want to do that at the Final Destination
There's several reasons
Why
Because different fragments could drop Traverse different paths through the network
The whole collection may only be available at the receiver
So maybe not possible to actually do the reassembly inside of the network
Another reason
Is that
Reassembly it any
No could be premature as we've discussed subsequent
Links might require further fragmentation
So why should we use the spite offset as well for fragments rather than number in each
Well
the first answer would be
it allows further fragmentation of the fragments
Okay
So just because one package
already been fragmented
Perhaps
we need to further fragment that fragment
So
another answer is with
despite offset
The receiver can then lay down the bites and memory when they arrive
So we could just basically allocate the total length
and then put these
where they would need to go in that memory
Eraser wouldn't need to be moving the received at or around so we could avoid things like them copies
So
some final portions of the packet header that we haven't discussed too much chatter time to live in the check sums were going to wrap those up now
So the time to live field is used to address a potentially serious problem that can arise
And in IP forwarding Loops could cause packets to cycle in the network forever
And as these would accumulate
it could consume all network capacity
So we we keep the time to live field in the packet
header
and this gets decremented each hop
If that ever reaches zero
then the package gets discarded
The time exceeded message would then be sent back to the source
So this is this abuse a using icmp control messages and would be the basis for how traceroute would work
I'm so because as we've seen with some of the routing protocols
we could wind up with these Cycles
We need to avoid having the cyclist
Go on forever
The protocol would identify a higher layer protocol the transport layer protocol typically
So
for TCP
we wouldn't go to 6 in the header or UDP would encode a 17 and a header
For that particular protocol is a standard that would define where these come from
This can be important for doing D multiplexing at the receiving host
Is it indicate
What kind of pattern to expect next after that hire layer transport layer protocol
The most of the last parts of the packet
Her we haven't yet discussed should be the checksum
What happens with the checksum
It's basically making sure date has not been corrupted what how this is computed and be computed as taking the ones compliments
Some of all of the 16-bit words in the IP packet had her right
So use 16-bit words in the ticket
That one's compliments
I'm over all of them
Are the results of this should be a zero or in Hexxit should be ones
If it's not
then the router with describe the packet is having been corrupted so that we don't act on bogus information
For example
of just a single bit
or a single portion of that IP packet
had her spend modified
So the last Parts we've already talked about it
A fair amount would be the actual IP addresses
So the two that appear there in the IP packet
headers for the source
So where did it come from
Like the return address in postal mail and the destination or where we're sending to the to address in postal mail
So these destination address is
there should be a unique identifier locator for the receiving host
so that we can have this forwarded appropriately at each router
Where node in the Network's remember
All this is packet-switched
So each no needs to know how to get it to that destination
or at least to get it to the next link along the way to the destination
The Source address also needs to be unique so that the recipient can decide
Let's say whether to accept the packet
Maybe if it's coming from an unknown IP address or an IP address
you know
as bad
you were a few Zack
the receiving host would say
refuse
Something the packet
So
this would also enable the recipient to send reply messages back to the source
For example
if it needs to acknowledge something
or make sure some information was received or whatever other purpose might be necessary
So that should conclude about everything about IP fragmentation
as well as a few more details about a couple parts of the IP packet
headers that we hadn't previously covered